Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)

Start Here Guide
For

A-GRA
5.0a
21 APR 2026

DISCLAIMER: The discussion of non-federal entities, methods, products, or services does not imply
any endorsement by the United States Government, the Department of Defense, or the Department of
the Air Force.

1

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)
Revision History

Version
5.0a

Description

Generation Date

Initial Public ASK 5.0a Release

21 APR 2026

2

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)

Mission Autonomy Introduction
Mission Autonomy (MA) is the name of the software solution Autonomous Collaborative
Platforms (ACPs) require to manage the mission-level execution, planning, prioritization, and
interaction with other systems that humans manage in crewed platforms. MA interfaces are
standardized to support rapid capability development while enabling interoperability with MA
peers and human controlled systems. MA solutions are sourced via competitive selection of bestin-breed capabilities.
This package defines the Autonomy Government Reference Architecture (A-GRA) which
captures the MA interface standards and supporting documentation. Adherence to this
architecture enables implementers to develop MA solutions that can be more easily integrated
into existing platforms, quickly upgraded, and ported between modular compatible MA
solutions. It also enables integrators to rapidly deploy custom, performant MA solutions to
accomplish diverse and evolving mission use cases.
Operational View-1
This Operational View-1 (OV-1) figure depicts a high-level notional mission use case for a
Defensive Counter Air (DCA) mission. ACPs take-off from an airbase under oversight from a
Launch and Recovery Element (LRE) and fly a hold pattern where they await the arrival of a
Quarterback (QB). The ACPs are assigned to a team and tasked with transit in formation to the
Mission Area. Once they arrive, ACPs allocate coverage of the zone and fly Combat Air Patrol
(CAP) patterns. When a threat emerges, MA forwards a request to engage the threat to the QB.
The QB can simply approve the MA generated strike request while maintaining a safe standoff
distance. The ACP team will self-nominate a shooter, engage the threat, and return to CAP.

A high level OV-1 used
to guide interface development for the A-GRA
3

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)
Potential alternate QBs are depicted around the periphery of the battlespace and may interact
with ACPs according to permissions associated with their roles. When an ACP reaches the Bingo
Fuel state, it requests Return to Base (RTB) to the primary or alternate launch and recovery site.
The sense-and-avoid traffic deconfliction maneuver depicted as part of the primary RTB route
illustrates the robustness of the ACP to uncertainties in the operational environment. Finally, the
ACP lands at the designated airfield.
L1 Interface Diagram

High level view of MA
and its six L1 interfaces including four distinct C2 nodes

The scalability and adaptability required of MA solutions to accomplish complex, large-scale
mission operations are enabled by rigorous definition of the interface specifications between MA
and the other systems in the operational vignette. This ecosystem is broken down into multiple
architecture levels to track the interface requirements for the MA and other systems. Level 1 (L1)
is the system level, which defines the external interfaces of the MA to the other systems. The L1
interfaces are Command and Control (C2), Vehicle Interface (VI), Mission Systems (MS),
Mission Planning (MP), Mission Debrief (MD) and Peer to Peer (P2P). All of these
interfaces are described in detail in the A-GRA Interface Control Document (ICD).
Level 2 (L2) is the component level, which defines the interfaces within MA. MA L2 interface
definitions will be included in future releases of the A-GRA.

4

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)
A-GRA Organization
The A-GRA provides the necessary definitions and requirements by which autonomy
components and systems may be developed but does not exhaustively detail all specific
implementation options. This is a high level description of interactions organized by interface:
•

C2
Describes three categories of C2 interactions – Direct, Indirect, and Responsive
Defines interactions to form and task a team
Defines Role Based Access Control (RBAC) for ACPs
Describes command flows for employing weapons
Vehicle Interface (VI)
o Describes the responsibilities of MA and Flight Autonomy (FA) with regard to
safety-criticality and management of the platform data
o Identifies control mode messages and sequences for communication with FA.
Control modes include Heading, Speed, Altitude (HSA), Waypoint Following,
and Curve Following
o Defines the required subsystem status reporting and vehicle state data to be
provided by FA to MA
o Defines an interface for FA to communicate command validation (accept/reject)
back to MA. FA always retains control but 'listens' to MA based on mission state
Mission Systems (MS) Interface
o Exchange of messages between A-GRA compliant platforms. Includes
communications systems such as the Decentralized Message Service (DMS)
o Providing status data to MA such as Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) data
and system status of the local and remote platforms
o Provides interfaces for sensor and comms system interactions
o Defines interfaces for Weapons related interactions
Mission Planning (MP) Interface
o Defines the Mission Data Package which many MA interactions depend upon
being loaded pre-mission
o Defines a system of plans and sub-plans
o Defines the Rules of Engagement (ROE) settings and other crucial configuration
settings for ACPs
Mission Debrief (MD) Interface
o Defines the use cases for mission debrief and replay of MA data
o Defines requirements for on-board debrief systems and support for in-flight
mission debrief
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Interface
o Defines the process for team formation and leader election
o Defines interactions to distribute the package Common Operating Picture (COP)
o Defines peer contingencies and state data sharing requirements
o
o
o
o

•

•

•

•

•

A-GRA interactions are built with messages from the Universal Command and Control Interface
(UCI) plus extensions for MA. The source schema for Autonomy implementors includes all of
5

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)
the base UCI messages and MA extensions in the form of Extensible Markup Language (XML)
Schema Definition (XSD) files.
Compliance with the A-GRA is currently based on properly implementing interactions for
desired outcomes. Interactions, or sequences, must use the correct messages and populate
required fields with valid data. An automated compliance test harness is available for MA
developers to evaluate L1 interface compliance. It currently performs sequence/message level
validation and will be enhanced in future releases of the A-GRA.

Acronyms and Abbreviations
Abbreviation Definition
ACP

Autonomous Collaborative Platform

A-GRA

Autonomy Government Reference Architecture

ASB

Abstract Service Bus

C2

Command and Control

CAP

Combat Air Patrol

COP

Common Operating Picture

DCA

Defensive Counter Air

FA

Flight Autonomy

HSA

Heading, Speed, Altitude

ICD

Interface Control Document

L1

Level 1 (MA ↔ External Interface)

L2

Level 2 (Intra MA Interface)

LRE

Launch and Recovery Element

MA

Mission Autonomy

MD

Mission Debrief

MP

Mission Planner

MS

Mission System(s)

OV-1

High Level Operational Concept Operational View

P2P

Peer-to-Peer
6

Start Here Guide (v. 5.0a)
PNT

Position, Navigation, Timing

QB

Quarterback

ROE

Rules of Engagement

RTB

Return to Base

UCI

Universal Command and Control Interface

VI

Vehicle Interface

WEZ

Weapon(s) Engagement Zone

XML

Extensible Markup Language

XSD

XML Schema Definition

Contact Information
For any questions, feedback, issues, or more information about A-GRA releases, email
aflcmc.aflcmc.agra@us.af.mil.

7

